Continuing from the last class,
we saw that we can definitely
raise our own errors,
but there's still value error.
And what we see is raise value error.
Now sometimes these kinds of
errors which are predefined,
like key errors out of bound
errors or division by zero
error, they're not enough.
They are not serving us
the way we want it to serve.
So what can we do?
Yes, you can actually do a lot of.
Let me go ahead and close this.
Let's create a new file.
I want to keep everything
in a separate file so that if you're
revising them, you just come to that
lecture and quickly just download
that file and have a revision.
So let's call this one as custom.
This is actually custom exception.
Previously was custom errors
raising custom variable.
That was a different one.
I'll call this one as custom
except two, of course.
Underscore two.
Except underscore two py.
So how we can do that?
It's actually super simple.
You can just go ahead and create
a class and let's just call this one
as out of out of ingredients error.
That's it.
You can just literally
create a class.
And the concept that we
studied about inheritance.
Yes, that's exactly come
into the picture.
Now you can, you can actually inherit
the exception and we're not going
to do anything inside it.
You can actually overwrite
a lot of things.
But as of now, we just want
to say pass just like that.
And that is it.
You have created your own
most simplest custom exception.
Told you it's really simple.
Now let's go ahead and write a simple
method that actually uses it.
So we are going to call
a method which says make Chai.
And you pass me on milk as well as
the sugar, whatever the quantity it
is, and then I check if my milk
quantity is zero or if the sugar is
zero, then obviously I cannot make
chai.
So in that case I will raise
this time a different error which
is out of ingredient error.
And I can say missing milk or sugar.
Although that's nice, I don't prefer
milk, but I prefer sugar in my T.
Anyways, I will just go ahead
and print Chai is ready
with of course three dots.
Now how we can use this?
Let's just say we call this
make chai and we simply go
ahead and pass on 0 comma 1.
So 0 milk and we have 1 sugar.
So will I be able to make the chai?
And how does even this out
of ingredient error look like?
This doesn't exist
anywhere in Python.
Let's see that it's actually
comparatively easy.
So Python3.06 and there we go.
Voila.
This time we have our own color
highlightings and everything,
but we have our own exception which
is out of ingredient error.
This says missing milk or sugar.
So it's not that hard
to have custom errors.
And that's how the custom error
happens in all the libraries
and frameworks like fast
APIs and djangos and whatnot.
There is so many things that
you can do along with this.
So the exceptions are really
a really in depth topic.
As long as you know the basics
of it, that these are used to handle
the program gracefully or if
you want to crash the program.
Crashing the program
by the way is not a bad idea.
Giving you one such example, let's
just say you are running an E
Commerce page and on the E Commerce
page, on the very home page
you show all the product list.
But if your application is
not able to connect the database,
then no point
of showing them the whole thing.
Instead it's better to crash
the application right now, right
there so that people can,
whoever are the coders can debug
your application and can actually
have the database connection.
So sometimes having the crashing
is okay and it's all right.
Let's go ahead and catch
up in the next video.
Hope you are enjoying all of this.
If you're enjoying them,
please do rate us.
We really need that.
That is it for this video.
Let's catch up in the next one.